

# Signal Selection for AK4 and AK8 Jets

This repository contains a C++ script used for signal selection in high-energy physics experiments, specifically for AK4 and AK8 jets. The script is designed to analyze data from the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) and is an integral part of the data analysis pipeline in particle physics research.

## Project Description

The main script, `singal_selection_ak4_ak8.C`, is a comprehensive tool for the signal selection process in particle physics. It is designed to handle large volumes of data generated by the LHC and sift through this data to identify and select signals associated with AK4 and AK8 jets.

### Data Input

The script takes as input ROOT files, a common data format in particle physics. These files contain data from the LHC experiments. The data includes a wide range of parameters associated with each event detected by the LHC.

### Signal Selection

The script performs signal selection for AK4 and AK8 jets. This is a crucial step in the data analysis pipeline, as it helps in identifying the relevant signals from the background noise in the data. The signal selection process involves applying a series of cuts based on the physical properties of the jets. These cuts are designed to maximize the signal-to-noise ratio and improve the accuracy of the subsequent data analysis.

### Data Output

After the signal selection process, the script outputs the results, which can then be used for further analysis. The output includes a list of events that have passed the signal selection criteria, along with their associated parameters.
An example of results: http://uaf-10.t2.ucsd.edu/~eslam.zenhom/uf_work/VBSVVH/13oct/plots1_increased_bkg/

## Usage

To use the script, you need to have ROOT installed on your system, which is a modular scientific software framework used by particle physicists for data analysis.

Once you have ROOT installed, you can run the script using the following command:

```
root -l singal_selection_ak4_ak8.C
```

## About the Author

The script was developed as part of my research in particle physics. I have a strong background in data analysis, with a focus on high-energy physics. I am proficient in C++ and have experience working with large datasets, particularly in the context of the LHC experiments.

My skills include:

- Data analysis and interpretation
- Programming in C++
- Working with large datasets
- Knowledge of high-energy physics
- Experience with ROOT and other scientific software
